# PRL-CPHT
This repository contains the work done in my 3rd year of Ecole polytechnique as part of a PRL (Projet de Recherche au Laboratoire) under the code PHY513. 

Under the supervision of Dr. Cyrille Marquet $^\dagger$ from Centre de Physique Théorique (CPHT), I've worked on this project that revolves around studying the **Color Glass Condensate** (CGC) and its manifestation in the Proton-Nucleus collisions. This work is entitled **Studying forward di-jets in proton-nucleus collisions in the CGC framework**. 

## Abstract
In high-energy collisions, protons and nuclei are effectively described by quantum states that are densely filled with a significant number of gluons. This condition facilitates a dynamic equilibrium where the emission of new gluons and their nonlinear interactions balance out, leading to a stabilization of gluon densities as they approach a theoretical saturation limit. This phenomenon is the foundational concept behind gluon saturation. The Color Glass Condensate (CGC) effective theory stands at the forefront of our understanding of strongly interacting systems within this saturation regime, offering predictions that can be experimentally verified at high-energy particle colliders. One of the notable forecasts from CGC theory is the vanishing of the away-side peak in the two-particle correlation function during dilute-dense collisions, such as those observed in proton-nucleus interactions in the proton's fragmentation zone (forward rapidity). In this specific setting, due to the saturation effects within the target nuclei, pairs of particles are more inclined to be emitted with a relative azimuthal angle of $\Delta\phi = \pi$ in proton-proton scattering compared to proton-nucleus scattering. This fraction is referred to as the nuclear modification factor. In this project, we aim to reproduce the result of the suppression of this factor in back to back jets. We introduce first the Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) context before elaborating the role of high energy collisions to our end. Afterwards, we resolve the Balitsky Kovchekov equation (BK) central to this project. This will help us compute the gluons Transverse Momentum Dependent (TMD) distribution, and finally the nuclear modification factor in the CGC framework.


This repository contains the necessary code as well as the report I have written.

$^\dagger$: cyrille.marquet at polytechnique.edu
